>> Speaker 1: All right, so for
this performance and page jank one,
it's pretty easy to kind of identify
just by looking at the app.
You make a bunch of these,
they start moving really slowly.
Whereas when you start off,
they are nice and smooth.
So it's pretty easy to tell, I mean,
we're doing a lot of work here, right?
We have all these different things.
We add 50, then we have 60 different
things we're trying to animate and
all that.
But I think what's interesting is to take
a deeper dive through the performance
panel and just seeing,
what's going on what is really expensive?
What could be done to improve
in those kind of things.
So yeah, one thing we can do,
we can make a bunch of Ms.,
we can go to the performance.
Do a little recording,
maybe just a second, and then stop it.
And yeah, so
we can kind of see like hear, basically,
the CPU is kind of maxed
out the whole time.
What interesting is, it's doing kind
of a big combination of stuff, right?
It's doing a lot of JavaScript,
a lot of rendering and
a lot of painting, whereas sometimes you
see it's just a lot of JavaScript code or
in the one where we were
demoing all those green boxes.
It didn't even have to render anything,
it was just repainting as
you were scrolling, right?
So this one's doing a lot of work on both
ends, and just to illustrate an example,
if the speed were to get really bad and
you were to run a profile.
So I'll just kind of re-record one.
You would actually start getting
all of these big red things, right?
And these red things are up
here in the timeline, but
they're also on specific
request animation frames.
And these are Chrome, dev tool way of
telling you like for sure, page jank.
We're dropping frames,
there's too much work to be done.
So when it gets really terrible,
you'll be able to see them in red.
But even otherwise, I mean,
if you can see them on the site,
that's a really good sign.
So kind of like looking in again with
the green and the purple, the painting and
the rendering.
We don't have control over how
Google Chrome paints or renders, but
we do have control over what it
renders and when with our JavaScript.
So at the end of the day, we never really
dive too deep into the composites.
We dive into the code that
right before them, right?
So it's like well, we had to do all this
work and something in here happened.
So you can pretty quickly, and
I think this is something to keep in mind.
These are pretty overwhelming pages.
But if you were to see this site for
the very first time and somebody's like,
this is super slow, right?
And you're like yeah, it is really slow.
Within a few seconds, you can at least pin
it down to a specific function, right?
You have like add JavaScript.
We can see, this is really slow.
It's these composites.
Here's the yellow before it.
We find the last wired one
like we've been doing and
we click on here,
at least we're in the zone.
I feel like that's a big win, right?
We know what part of the code
base is causing that problem.
We can start diving in from there.
On top of that, so
it's like this move function.
So on top of that,
you get this really nice timing stuff
that we had talked about earlier.
So whenever Chrome does a performance
audit, you get all these timing things.
So we can see pretty much right away,
by far and
away what the most expensive thing is,
right, which is this check here.
It's like this if the current
logo is offset top is ==0.
And what's kinda going on here is like
what we talked about back in the layout
threshing, right, where it's like
this move function get called a lot.
Every time that all these
things need to move, but
what we're doing here that's
problematic is that we are.
Every time it gets called,
we go through all these different things,
and the first thing we do
is we start setting, or
we start reading and then immediately
writing to this offsetTop, right?
So it's like when you're doing that,
you're thrashing the layout.
Additionally, we can see that
just as these things get big.
There's a part of this that's
just it's a lot of work, right?
As you have a big list of things that are
animating that you're trying to measure,
there's an unavoidable reality to just
there's a lot that you're trying to do,
can you animate less of them or
something like that.
But the thing that we're really seeing is
this layout thrashing is happening, right?
So what happens is we
read the layout here,
so we're getting all these things from it,
then here and
this happens every single time for
every icon, we set a style attribute.
When we set that style attribute,
it throws out all those
cached values on offset top.
I can't know what those are anymore,
right?
So if you have something absolute 00 and
you grab offsetTop,
it's gonna be 0, right?
And then you say, well, style top ten.
It's gonna throw out all the caches it
has, cuz now the thing is moved, and
it needs to know where it
ended up in the dom again.
So even just as an ordering thing, if we
could just do all of our writes before or
after we do all of our reads, it would
just be a lot more efficient, right?
Because what's happening here
is we do a read, we do a write,
then we do more reads.
Cuz then here, again, we need to
see if it's equal to this or this.
So as one improvement, I mean, again,
this is just a tremendous amount of work.
As one improvement, we could do here,
is we could just basically instead of,
let me see here.
Sorry, just getting my bearings.
So we've got the offset top here and
then we kinda write it again here, and
then we read it again here.
So I was kinda playing
around with the solution and
let me just pop this.
>> Speaker 1: I had kinda done this little
bit of a thing here.
So what we did is same loop, but
what we do first we grab the position and
we sort in a separate variable, right?
And so we grab that variable and
then we just use that variable.
We never hit that dom element again.
We just use that variable from now on.
So even if we need to set the top to
something else like we set it here.
Sorry, we set it here.
We never go back to the dom again for it.
We're just okay with the position
that we grabbed out.
So this is really similar of a problem.
I don't know if you've ever
done caching selectors before.
So if you're in jQuery or something like
that and you have an unscroll handler, and
it needs to grab a dom element and
put some data in it like how far you're
scrolled, or something like that.
The way you might do it is an event
unscroll and in that unscroll event,
you grab the dom element and write to it.
What that means is every time scroll
fires, you're hitting the dom again.
You're grabbing it again and
it's totally unnecessary, right?
So what you would do is you would
take that get element by ID or
the jQuery selector, and
you move it out of the onScroll event.
You kind of move it into
a global negative space, right?
So you're like just grab it the one time,
then the scroll can just keep hitting it.
It's the same thing in here is if you're
gonna be writing and reading, and
writing, and reading back and forth.
All I've done here is I have abstracted
the very first read into a variable and
then we keep doing
everything else as normal.
We never go back to the dom again, right?
So after we do this style top, you'll
notice we never hit currentLogo.offset
height or top or
anything like that ever again.
So we can do little things like that and
then that makes, again,
this isn't a perfect solution.
But there's still a ton
of work going on here and
my page is kinda died while I
was working on it happening.
There's still a ton of work going on here,
but you can see big performance wins.
S you can even see the shape
of everything change.
So over here in the performance tab,
we're seeing almost all of
this kinda like green here.
And these jank areas, whereas if we kinda
run it here, we can see that everything is
a lot more in the animation frame,
right, nice and spaced out.
And you can see there's a nice,
clear area for the CPU gets that
little break after each time.
So the move is still expensive.
These are all definitely
coming from the move call.
The move gets called way too often still,
and it uses a lot of the CPU, but
we're not really hitting that same amount.
And really,
the cause here was this layout thrashing.
It was just the read,
the write, the read again.
Subtract it to a variable and
we're good to go.
Honestly, there's a lot that we can
still improve about this like from
an architecual standpoint.
Keeping the way that we're doing the whole
architecture of the code is probably not
great, iterating through everything and
reading values and things like that.
We can move all of that to a variable,
right?
We couldjust programmatically know where
everything's position should be and
then never read from the dom again.
That would be a cool way of doing it.
It's like a lot of these
visualization libraries do, right?
They just try to stay away from
the dom as much as possible,
keep things in CPU memory.
But as just an example of like,
you can see a slow website.
You can instantly find the function
that's causing it, and
you can even find what line within
the function is really slow.
It's a pretty good jumping
off point from there.